I know I've covered
a lot of patterns here.
However, if you wanna read more,
then make sure to check out patterns.dev.
Cuz we have a lot more patterns here,
stuff that I wasn't able to cover today,
like mixin pattern, mediator/middleware.
What else didn't I cover?
Flyweight, I guess.
And yeah, it goes all the way down.
And then there's also Addy's original
book, Learning JavaScript Design Patterns,
and I believe he updated
it to the ES15 syntax.
So this is also covering a lot
of the original patterns,
are based on the original
book with the updated syntax,
in case you wanna learn more
about JavaScript patterns.
>> Someone wants to know how you
created all those awesome animations.
>> Keynote.
[LAUGH]
>> Just Keynote?
>> Yeah.
>> The rendering patterns, [LAUGH] it
was helpful, but it was also fast and
a lot of new information for me.
Do you have any other
resources you would recommend?
>> So I actually have a blog on this, what
it's called, Talks Rendering Patterns.
Now this one doesn't cover
client side rendering.
Don't watch this talk, it was really bad,
by the way, [LAUGH] it was so bad.
But on this blog I also have
everything about static rendering, and
then also server rendering.
And I also included,
let me just go down a bit,
the edge rendering side that
I wasn't able to cover here.
So serverless and
then we have edge server side rendering.
And I have to say,
because this was also tough for Vercel,
a lot of this is kind of focused on
what Vercel uses out of the box.
But by all means, I see a lot of
frameworks move to this edge SSR
right now, just because it comes with so
many benefits.
So it will definitely be
the future of rendering.
I feel like talking about rendering
patterns will be outdated in three
years from now.
Everyone will just use one
optimized pattern, and be,
why did we even have to think about this?
I may be wrong, but yeah, especially
with React server components and
the new Edge runtime, stuff like that,
it's exciting, I like it.
It will only get better,
well, it gets so much better.
>> It also mentioned in
the intermediate React course,
Reinhold kind of covers
some of these topics,
shows you how to do server side
rendering and that kinda thing.
>> Yeah.
>> Could you clarify again the
distinctions between static rendering and
server side rendering?
>> Yeah, so-
>> I know you kinda talked about that,
but-
>> For sure, so the biggest difference is
that with static rendering the HTML
gets generated at build time.
So if I deploy my website right now,
it would get built.
So it generates the HTML on my computer,
and then I can deploy it to any server.
And what I deploy is
already that complete HTML.
But with server side rendering,
that HTML that normally I would
have built on my computer,
it will get generated on the server when
a user requests it, if that makes sense.
So instead of already having that HTML
file ready for the user as they request
it, it still needs to be generated on
demand, which is the biggest difference.
But they both kind of return the same
result, they both return the static HTML.
But when it's generated is the biggest
difference here, if that clears things up.
[LAUGH]
>> Another
good course to check out would
be Scott Moss's Next.js course.
>> Yeah, he had a Next.js course, right?
>> Thought to say what
you're talking about.
We won't have obviously
the streaming SSR stuff here.
>> It's probably good it's
still in beta [LAUGH] so
the API changes, I guess, probably.
>> Is there a way to measure the current
performance rendering with the browsers?
>> You mean like Lighthouse?
Are you aware of Lighthouse?
>> Yes, something like that.
>> Yeah, so you can use,
for example, this one.
Okay, I'm probably gonna get
a really bad performance, and
not right as I talk to you,
I gotta get good performance.
So we can, for example,
here generate a report,
I'm just going to do it on desktop.
Generate a report,
Now it's auditing me, or my website.
Let's see.
It comes up with fun tips.
Average user device
costs less than US $200.
They just show this to be like, look,
you really need to optimize your website.
Cuz a lot of people have
pretty bad phones, so
it takes a long time to load that website.
I don't know why this is taking me so
long, by the way,
normally this doesn't take this long.
I know there's also something like
a real web curve test or something.
I think maybe it's this one.
>> webpagetest.org is great, and
then web.dev allows you to
kinda do this Lighthouse.
>> Yeah, so I can start a test here.
So, yeah, it just showed you it runs
on a really bad phone right now.
So this is gonna be,
>> But yeah,
you can also go to web.dev and
that's basically Lighthouse.
>> Yeah, I don't know what this is,
this never takes this long, [LAUGH] okay.
>> Under measure.
>> Yeah, I always forget
everything that thing that-
>> That's basically a hosted version of
Lighthouse.
>> Because it returns the same results.
Okay, I'm just going to close that one,
maybe that'll speed things up a bit.
Do I have Wi-Fi?
Yeah, I do.
[LAUGH] Okay, well, here you see that
it measured the first concentful paint.
It measured the time to interactive, total
blocking time, cumulative layout shift,
all that stuff.
Now, it also shows some
nice opportunities,
stuff that I haven't covered yet,
like serve images in next-gen formats.
For example, here I'm using PNG, and
maybe I wanted to use webp, I don't know,
other type of better formats that make it.
It actually also shows you how Next.js
is doing it, which is pretty nice.
Cuz yeah, if you're using Next,
it actually comes with image optimization
by default, which is pretty nice.
So yeah, it shows you all these things.
Also other stuff that I haven't talked
about, not about performance, but
about accessibility.
For example, some of my buttons
don't have an accessible name.
So this can be difficult, like these
screen readers, stuff like that.
But yeah, if you ever wonder how
well your website's performing,
make sure to use a tool like this.
Let's see if I can also
run it on a desktop.
No, I guess I can't change it here.
Yeah, there are many ways to
measure your performance.
And you can actually see if the changes
that you made have had any impact on your
app's performance.
>> Can you explain a little
more about static rendering,
where you fetch dynamic data on the client
side, versus server side rendering?
>> Yeah.
>> Are they fairly similar, or?
>> No, so what I was trying to, and
I can, I guess, show you the thing here.
I think this was the dynamic one,
let me just check real quick.
So I have the components,
I have the listings.
So I'm actually using, let's see,
yeah, so since I'm using Next.js,
it's called automatic static optimization.
So any page that we build
is static by default.
So I am showing these listings, but
then these listings themselves
use that useListings hook.
So what happens is, let me see if,
I feel like the network might be so
fast that you cannot
really see the difference.
I feel like I ended up in
an infinite loop there.
That's always a fun thing with hooks,
isn't it?
Let's see.
Because I didn't, okay.
So let's see what the initial HTML
contains, if we can see that.
Now this has a lot of extra data just
because StackBlitz, actually, let's see.
Since using, again, StackBlitz makes this
hard because it adds so many other things.
So there's a big difference between
this and server side rendering.
So what I wanted to show here is
that the entire page still gets
statically generated.
So if I wanted to maybe show a title here,
h1, welcome, whatever, this would
still all be generated at build time.
The only difference here
is that within listings,
which will also get
generated at build time.
But initially, it will just only
render this p loading component.
Because this listings
is false at build time,
it's not going to fetch from a React hook
at build time, it doesn't run the hooks.
So the initial HTML that get returned
to the client just has this p loading.
So it's not that it doesn't have anything.
And then on demand,
when it actually does have listings.
So in the example I
showed here just quick,
the p loading would have been
like a skeleton component.
So maybe instead of loading here, it would
have been skeleton UI, I don't know.
So that skeleton UI component would
be generated or turned to HTML, and
that would get built at build time and
then deployed.
And then only once
the useListings hook has
fetched data will it actually
return those other grids, or
the listings grid, sorry
>> Which on server side it's making
the API call on the server
instead of client?
>> Well, it's fetching the data for
the listings on the server, but
it's not generating HTML on the server,
its generating the HTML on the clients.
>> All right.
>> Yeah, it's rendering those
listings on the clients.
So with server side rendering, the entire
HTML gets generated on the client from
the HTML body, head, head, head,
everything is generated on the client.
Whereas here with static rendering and
a client side fetch,
we still have a lot of components
that have been pre-built.
Is really just in this case, any
dynamic components that need that data,
that will be generated on
the client dynamically.
Thank you all so much for
coming to this workshop, I appreciated it.
I appreciated your presence here,
I hope it was useful in a bit.
Yeah, of course, make sure to check
out javascriptpatterns.vercel.app, or
just pattern.dev, where we have so
many more patterns to show you.
Thanks so much.
[LAUGH]
>> [APPLAUSE]